Welcome back everyone.
So hopefully you managed to convert these components over to Lazy loaded components and then render
them with suspense wrapped around the actual two routes.
It's pretty much the identically same code that we had in the app just in our last lesson except the
only difference is we wrapped the roads itself.
These root level components.
Now some of you might be wondering what about wrapping the other components that are not page level
components inside of a lazy import.
Technically you can.
But the benefits are not really there because if you think about it the components that you end up running
that are not at the page level are not as large like our head or component for example is actually quite
small whereas the page component has a lot of different things on it that make it a full home page component
the home page component itself contains not only the home page content but the directory.
And that in itself is another component set the shop component contains multiple other components in
the roots that technically in their own way deserve to actually be separated.
So unless you actually see that there's a certain component you have that isn't a page level component
but is really big and needs to be possibly asynchronously loaded because it's slowing down the overall
rendering speed of your Web site then you can actually do it but again you want to make sure that you
actually see it first that it's really slowing down in production.
Now of course we haven't actually been testing this in production we've only been testing this in our
local.
But we will do that later.
Right now it's perfectly fine for us just to see our chunking occur inside of our local development
server.
The other thing we do have to think about though before we push the production is that with chunking
now we are depending on our network being active and fast When ever we make requests to new routes because
now whenever the user navigates to a different route such as our home page or shop or checkout or sign
in we are watching from the back end the J.S. chunk related to that route now.
This means that if the connection suddenly stops or slows down and throws an error of some kind.
We don't know we could be any kind of issue related to network.
Well we're not going to get anything back in our spinner is going to hang indefinitely.
In fact if an error comes back we need some way to handle it because Spence is not going to know what
to do with that error and our app is going to break the easiest way for us to do this is actually with
something called an error boundary.
Now what is an error boundary an Arab boundary is another feature that was introduced around the same
time that reacts suspense got introduced in sixteen point six Arab boundaries is essentially a way for
us to write this unique component that will very similarly to suspense catch an error and then render
some fallback component or you eye instead of just letting that error occur the way that we've normally
seen them occur where the app breaks and then it takes us to that weird page where it tells us about
our error.
So what we want to do is actually write an error boundary and this error boundary code is actually really
easy to do react will naturally know that we're writing an error boundary if we use one of two lifecycle
methods because an error boundary component is a class component that has either a component did catchment
lifecycle method in it or get derive state from error.
Now I'll actually show you what both of these are because they both serve different uses but this component
is actually really easy to reason about.
Now what we're going to do is we're going to make this new air boundary component and we can call it
whatever we want in our case let's just call it error boundary now in this Arab boundary component we
are just going to create our air boundary dot component dodgy ASX we're going to import react from react
because we're pretty much just writing a component and we're just going to literally declare an error
boundary component like so and this is going to be a class actually because we're writing a class component
because we need access to those lifecycle methods I mentioned.
So let's say a class air boundary extends react dot component now in order for react to know this is
an error boundary component we need to use either one or both of these lifecycle methods that are unique
to error boundaries.
Now we do have access to them in any component that is a class component but the moment we have it it
becomes an error boundary component the first one is a static method known as get derived state from
error now inside of this first static lifecycle method what this does is it essentially catches any
error that gets thrown in any of the children of this error boundary component.
So what we're going to do is take this air boundary component and wrap it around a bunch of components
or a single component and then whenever any of the children.
So any of those wrapped components inside get an error or throw an error that error gets passed in as
the parameter of get derived state from air inside of our air boundary component then what we can do
is we can process the air somehow right we can do something with it we can look at it we don't even
have to but all we have to do to make sure is return from this method some object that will set the
state inside of this class now what do I mean by setting the state well because it's a class component
we do have access of course to local state through the constructor calling our super and then selling
this dot state what we want to set is probably something like has aired which is just a property that
will yield a boolean that lets us know whether or not the state has aired inside or has not aired what
we can do then is say that we want to return has error goes to true so just to go over quickly what
we're doing with this error boundary class component we're instantiating this class component just like
any other class component we're setting up our constructor calling super and then setting state to have
some has added value inside of local state to be true or false this has aired stages lets us know whether
or not any of the children inside of the air boundary has actually thrown an error now in the static
get derived state from air lifecycle method this thing will actually get the literal error that was
thrown if any children inside of this air boundary does throw an air and then we have to make sure to
return from this method an object representing the new state that we want to set locally.
So we want to say has aired is true and now the rest of the component is aware that this error has happened.
The second lifecycle method we actually have access to that let's react know that this component is
a error boundary component is component did catch
now what component did catch.
Does is it gives us access to both the air and the info related to the air and how it got through.
So info might be which component actually through the air like which component actually broke and all
you do here is really maybe you want to log it or maybe you want to send this information somewhere.
It allows us to perform some side effects with the air itself.
So for example we can console log out the air for our own benefit so we can see it.
That's all this method does.
The most important one though is get derive state from air because we need to do this manual set this
way.
Otherwise we're not aware of the children inside of this component actually throwing errors.
That's the main thing.
This method allows us to catch the error ahead of time when it gets thrown inside of any children nested
in this error boundary component.
And the reason we're gonna do this is because in the actual render statement of this component that
we're writing we want to conditionally return different UI depending on whether or not the local state
has aired is true or false.
So if this start state DOT has aired is true then what we want to return might be a div that says something
went wrong.
Now if this dot state that has error is false then instead we will return this stuff promised our children.
So literally what we're doing is we're just waiting to see if an error has happened inside of the children
of this component.
If something happened if an error gets thrown we set local state and in turn our render will then return
a div that says something went wrong or any UI we want here to represent our error state.
Otherwise just render the children normally.
So if no errors occurred then the children are just going to render as they always will.
So what we'll do in order to actually use it is we will export it as the default as our error boundary
component.
And then we can just bring it into our app for example.
So let's just import in our new Arab boundary component from components error boundary error boundary
component and let's get rid of those Jeff Sachs and then what we can do is now wrap our suspense inside
of our air boundary
so now what's really great about this air boundary is that now if any of these ever break so if any
of our lazy loaded routes for example the network goes down something goes wrong inside of actually
rendering this component then the Arab boundary will default to this fallback the fallback being that
component that we supplied as what gets returned when something has aired.
Now we can actually test this out if we go into say our home page component and what we do is we modify
this code to manually throw an error.
So let's just say we throw error like this if we now check our application we see that what gets rendered
instead is something went wrong.
So this is really great for us because we'd never have to show our users that ugly error state at any
point if we don't know what might happen so similarly in everything else that we've done.
One of the big things to consider is that because this is being placed in our componentry and it does
nest certain components of our choice we have to think about the purpose of what we're using this Arab
boundary for.
So we can literally render different Arab boundaries and write multiple different Arab boundary components
if we wanted to that do different things with the errors depending on where we place it.
It's really just a tool that's for us to use.
So that's one big important thing to remember with Arab boundary but it's really just that the Arab
boundary code is really just a simple component that has access to these different lifecycle methods
which allow us to do something with an error that gets thrown inside of any of the children.
We simply set the state when whenever an error occurs and then conditionally render some specific you
eye based on whether or not an error has occurred or not but let's render something a little more professional
looking than just this div that says something went wrong.
Instead of what we can render is actually a component that uses some image that is maybe a little bit
cuter or at least a little bit more obvious that shows that we put a little bit of thought into it.
So there's actually there's a great resource at this link that I will include for you as a resource
that has a lot of images that kind of show you that there is something that went wrong with the page.
Now I'm gonna use this one and it really just takes you to a you are all that gives you the image itself.
We of course have to supply the text and I have created the stars components that you can bring into
your air boundary component.
And I will also give you the style components page and code in your resources as well.
So what you do is you copy it and you will create a new air boundary got styles dot ASX and just pasted
it then what you got to do is bring in these three components the air image overlay
your image overlay o ver lay the air image container and the air image text from that styles so in order
to use them instead of rendering out this div what you're going to use is the air image overlay first.
And this is just the container that holds it and centers the image and the text this air image container
simply takes a image your l string property which you can supply with any of these images that you want.
It's entirely up to you.
I'm going to use this cup so I was going to copy this in and paste this in here and then as far as the
image text goes I'm just going to say sorry.
This page is broken.
And now if we save we go back to our application we'll see that when this if an error occurs instead
they'll end up seeing this image which I think looks way nicer.
So again this is just one example of what you can do with error boundaries but it's really flexible
and it's actually really easy to use.
And now we can have our suspense and our lazy loaded components without having to worry if say something
goes wrong.
If our app goes down or if our server goes down or if an Arab gets thrown inside of these components
due to not being able to fetch it.
This Arab boundary component is able to catch and handle it.
So hopefully this Arab boundary lesson is interesting to you.
It's something that was introduced pretty recently with the new react version and people have been playing
around with it as well.
And now you are fully equipped to tinker around and play with it to see how you like to use it again
both suspense lazy loading error boundary.
These are all just new tools that react keeps introducing in order for developers to have an easier
time by extrapolating away some of the patterns required to handle errors with your components.
Lazy load your components it's all just really easy to improve our performance and improve the overall
user experience of our ReACT application.
So with that let's move forward with more performance optimizations for our application.